---
layout: post
title: "Statistical Analysis and Applications"
date: 2019-09-02
image: '/assets/img/'
description: 'Lecture 1'
categories:
- Lecture Notes
- Statistics
---

# What is Statistics?

- 데이터를 수집하고 분석하는것.
- 데이터란?
  - 정보 수집 테크닉: 서베이, Census Materials, 마켓 share data.
  - Observations gathered through a variety of information-gathering techniques are called data.
- Evaluate the world in an objective manner.

#### Variables
- If a characteristic is the same for every member of the group, it's called constant.
- If the characteristic can take on different values, it's called variable.
- Independent variables are variables that the researcher controls or manipulates in accordance with the purpose of the investigation.
- DV : a measure of the effect of the independent variable.
- IV <-> DV 의 correlation 이상의 인과관계를 알아보기 위해선 실험연구나 time-series연구가 필요.

### Scales of Measurements
- Measurement : A process of assigning numbers to characteristics according to a defined rule.
- Some measurements are more precise than others
  - Measurement scales of variables are classified in a hierarchy based on their degree of precision. (Nominal, Ordinal, Interval, and Ratio)

#### Nominal Scale
- Classifier with no logical ordering of the categories.
- Categories are mutually exclusive.

#### Ordinal Scale
- categories with logical ordering.
- the intervals are not equal tho.
- Ex: 설문 문항

#### Interval Scale
- Variables measured possess equal difference between the intervals.
- Ex: Temperature.
- 0 is not 0 in math; it means something as a point on the scale.

#### Ratio Scale
- True zero exists.

- A measure of a characteristic of a population is called a parameter.
- A descriptive measure of a sample is called a statistic.

#### Descriptive Statistics and Inferential Statistics
- Descriptive: Used to classify and summarize numerical data. (Histogram, Table, Graphs, etc.)
- Inferential: making generalizations about a population by studying a sample from that population. Test hypothesis about the value of the parameter or estimate the value of the parameter based on the corresponding statistic.

## Measures of Central Tendency
- Normal distribution has central tendency lie near the center of the distribution.
- 노멀 디스트리뷰션은 세상에 존재하지 않음.
- Mode is the simplest index of central tendency.
  - The most frequent score in the distribution.
  - When theres only one mode, the distribution is called unimodal.
  - It provides little Information except when we consider qualitative variables measured on a nominal scale.
- Median is the 50th percentile in the distribution.
   - If oddly distributed, middle one is the median.
   - If evenly distributed, middle of the two middle score.
   - Median splits the sample into two parts with equal numbers of subjects, when the subjects' observations are ordered from lowest to highest.
   - Median better describes a typical value when the sample distribution of measurements is highly skewed.
   - Appropriate for interval data. also valid for ordinal data.
   - if the distribution is symmetric, mean == median.
- Mean is the arithmetic average of the scores in a distribution.
  - Mean is appropriate only for quantitative data.

## Measures of Variation
- Variation describes a distribution
  - Length of the intervals that indicate how the scores are spread throughout the distribution.
  - Common measures of variation are the range, mean deviation, variance, and std.

- Range
  - (Highest - Lowest) + 1
  - Seriously impacted by extremes. Larger groups tend to have larger ranges of scores: Ranges of two distributions composed of different numbers of observations are not directly comparable.

- Average deviation
  - (x - mean)/N
  - never used since its always 0.

- Population Variance
  - (x - mean)^2/N
  - average of the sum of squared deviations around the mean.
  - Just square root the result for Std to match the unit.

- Sample Variance
  - Instead of having denominator as N, use n-1.

## Standard Scores
- Score which is calculated in terms of std. (z-score)
- 전체 분포도의 상대적인 포지션. 평균과 std의 텀으로 계산.
- Z = (X-Mean)/std
- negative z-score means the raw score is below mean.
- 두개 이상의 다른 분포도를 비교하고자 할때 사용됨.
