---
layout: post
title: "NLP (Deep Learning) Lecture"
date: 2019-03-05
image: '/assets/img/'
description: 'Lecture 1'
categories:
- Lecture Notes
- Deep Learning
---
# What is NLP?
- CS + AI + Linguistics
- Goal is for computers to process and understand natural language to perform some tasks

## Level of NLP
- Speech -> Phonetic analysis -> morphological analysis -> Syntactic analysis -> Semantic Interpretation -> Discourse Processing
- Text -> OCR/Tokenization -> morphological analysis -> Syntactic analysis -> Semantic Interpretation -> Discourse Processing
  - Morphological analysis - its like a parsing tree.
  - Syntactic analysis - Grammatical/ sequential
  - Semantic Interpretation - Meaning

### Some of NLP Applications
- Spell Check
- Keyword Search
- finding synonyms
- Extracting info from websites
- Classifying, reading level of school texts, pos/neg sentiment of longer doc.
- machine translation
- spoken dialog systems
- complex question answering

### NLP in Industry
- Search (written and spoken)
- Online Ads
- Automated/assisted translation
- Sentiment analysis for marketing or finance/trading
- Speech Recognition
- Automating customer support

### Why is NLP hard?
- Complexity in representing, learning, and using linguistic/situational/world/visual knowledge.
- Jane hit June and then she [fell/ran]. (who is 'she' referring to?)
- Ambiguity: "I made her duck"

### What is Deep Learning?
- DL is sub part of ML
- Most ML methods work well IF manual feature engineering was present.
- The Representation learning attempts to automatically learn good features or representations.
- DL algorithms attempt to learn multi-level representations and an output.

### Reasons for exploring DL
- Manual feature-engineered features are often over-specified, incomplete and take a long time to desing and validate.
- Learned Features are easy to adapt, fast to learn.
- DL provides very flexible, universal, learnable framework for representing world, visual and linguistic info.
- DL can learn both Supervised and Unsupervised.
